---
title: 2023-2024学年下学期期末
---

## 2023-2024学年下学期期末试卷（A）

考试科目：英语短篇小说赏析  
任课教师：张佳秋  
考试形式：闭卷  
考试时间：90 分钟

### I. Translation（20%）

Please translate the following English words into Chinese or Chinese phrases into English.（1-10 题每题 1 分，11-15 题每题 2 分，共 20 分）

1. dusk

    ***

2. blink

    ***

3. genuine

    ***

4. farmstead

    ***

5. oak

    ***

6. paralyze

    ***

7. chalice

    ***

8. incessant

    ***

9. amiability

    ***

10. mosquito

    ***

11. 表现性的

    ***

12. 想象人物

    ***

13. 地理背景

    ***

14. 字面意思

    ***

15. 习用象征

***

### II. Multiple Choice（20%）

Each of the following sentences is incomplete and is followed by four choices. Choose the one that completes the sentence.（每题 2 分，共 20 分）

1. Which of the following adjectives can probably best describe Bill's attitude? (*Early Autumn*)

    A. Hopeful.  
    B. Indifferent.  
    C. Emotional.  
    D. Puzzled.

    ***

2. Which of the following statements describes an "implied author"?

    A. The implied author is the story writer.  
    B. The implied author is an image the reader gets from the written work.  
    C. The implied author is the real author's "another self".  
    D. The implied author is an alternative term for "narrator".

    ***

3. Which of the following facts about the washwoman's son is not true? (*The Washwoman*)

    A. He was ashamed of his mother and never came to see her.  
    B. He did not invite his old mother to his wedding.  
    C. He was a rich but faithless son, he did not give the old lady any money.  
    D. He refused to contribute money for a coffin and for the funeral when his mother was badly ill.

    ***

4. The unreliable narrator is different from the naive narrator in that ______.

    A. he is often biased or deceitful  
    B. he is usually an evil character  
    C. he is confused about the events that he tells  
    D. he does not have a full understanding of the story

    ***

5. The narrator decided that he might have an unpleasant company even before seeing Mr. Kelada because ______. (*Mr. Know-All*)

    A. he had to share a small cabin with another person  
    B. he had known the latter to be a loud and noisy person  
    C. the latter had a lot of luxurious toilet things  
    D. the latter had a foreign name

    ***

6. Which of the following statements may not be a possible theme of the story? (*The Acorn-Gatherer*)

    A. A boy without the care of parents is mistreated by the society and pushed to die.  
    B. Cruelty in human society, some children are ignored and could not survive in this world.  
    C. The religion has lost its original meaning of mercy and is morally harsh.  
    D. A boy escaped from his granny and drowned himself in a canal when fishing.

    ***

7. Many modern and postmodern writers deliberately avoid cause-effect relations because ______.

    A. a plot can have no causality  
    B. chronological order is more important than causality  
    C. the reality of life contains uncertainty and complexities  
    D. episodic events make stories more closely plotted

    ***

8. Which of the following events belongs to the resolution of the story? (*A White Heron*)

    A. The grandmother talked about her son, her daughter and Sylvia in front of the stranger.  
    B. Sylvia came back home from the forest, her worn old frock was torn and tattered, and she still kept silence.  
    C. Sylvia was horror-stricken to hear a clear whistle not very far away.  
    D. Sylvia climbed onto the top of the tree and saw a vast and awesome world.

    ***

9. Mrs. Mallard's reaction to the news of her husband's death is an example of ______. (*The Story of an Hour*)

    A. verbal irony  
    B. dramatic irony  
    C. situational irony  
    D. verbal and dramatic irony

    ***

10. The boy came to epiphany when ______. (*Araby*)

    A. all the lights were turned off in the hall.  
    B. he went marketing with his aunt on Saturdays evenings.  
    C. he got on the deserted and delayed train.  
    D. he heard the conversation between the shop-girl and two young men.

***

### III. True or False（20%）

Please decide whether the following statements are true or false, mark T (true) or F (false) for each sentence.（每题 2 分，共 20 分）

1. A narrator is very important because he (she) determines the story's point of view.

    ***

2. Bill made a suggestion that Mary and her husband have dinner with his family some night, but it is only intended for politeness. (*Early Autumn*)

    ***

3. The implied author is subject to vicissitudes of real life, while the fresh-and-blood author of a particular work is conceived as a stable entity.

    ***

4. The boy died by accident, the granny was regretful about it, she believed that she had not done her duty. (*The Acorn-Gatherer*)

    ***

5. Sylvia decided not to tell the secret of the white heron because she realized that the white heron was on the verge of extinction. (*A White Heron*)

    ***

6. Learning about the death of her husband in a train crash, Mrs. Mallard sees the prospect of the future and is ready to embrace it. (*The Story of An Hour*)

    ***

7. Dramatic irony occurs when statements are at odds with intentions.

    ***

8. Finally Mangan's sister spoke to the boy, and the boy promised to bring her some gift from the bazaar. (*Araby*)

    ***

9. Stream of consciousness as a style of writing mainly uses indirect characterization to tell a story.

    ***

10. The story is mostly composed of Mitty's daydreams, with only few happenings connecting the fantasies together. (*The Secret Life of Walter Mitty*)

***

### V. Writing（40%）

Please write down your answers to the following three items.（共 40 分。第 1 题 12 分，第 2、3 题各 14 分）

1. This is a typical short story, please give some features of a short story with reference its content. Give one or two examples of its setting and tell how they influence its atmosphere and theme. According to you, does the story give readers some moral lessons? If so, what is it? If not, what is its theme? (*Early Autumn*)

    ***

2. The story has a lot of descriptions of beautiful nature and has a touch of Romanticism. What is Romanticism in literature? Please give a brief summary of its characteristics. What are the two plot-lines of the story? Sylvia finally kept silence as to the place of the bird, is she an environmentalist? Tell briefly the awesome sceneries Sylvia saw on the top of the great pine tree. (*A White Heron*)

    ***

3. Please tell briefly what is indirect characterization and how it is used in the depictions of the boy. Please give several symbols in the story and tell their meanings. What is the place Dublin and its cultural setting like in the story? How are these symbols related to the setting, especially in the boy's mind? According to you, what is the theme of the story? (*Araby*)
