---
title: 2024-2025学年下学期第一二章测验题
---

## 2024-2025学年下学期第一二章测验题

### 一、

Please say which of the following formulas are tautologies, which are contradictions, and which are contingencies. In each case, use truth tables plus accompanying text to prove your claims.

(i) $(p\to q)\lor(q\to p)$

(ii) $p\oplus p$ (where $\oplus$ is the exclusive disjunction)

(iii) $(p\to q)\to(\neg q\to\neg p)$

-------- Aberdeen 2005

***

### 二、

Translate the following argument into propositional logic, and prove it.

Premises: If it rains then it's wet. If it's wet then I'm miserable. I'm not miserable.

Conclusion: It does not rain.

-------- Aberdeen 2006

***

### 三、

True or False. You do not need to justify your answers on this problem.

$\mathbb{N}$ denotes the set of natural numbers, $\{0,1,2,\ldots\}$.

$\mathbb{Z}$ denotes the integers, $\{\ldots,-2,-1,0,1,2,\ldots\}$.

(    ) (a) If the implication $P\to Q$ is true, then its converse is guaranteed to be true.

(    ) (b) $\forall w\in\mathbb{Z}.\exists x\in\mathbb{Z}.\forall y\in\mathbb{Z}.\exists z\in\mathbb{Z}.w+x=y+z$

(    ) (c) $\exists x\in\mathbb{N}.\forall p\in\mathbb{Z}.p>5\to x^2\equiv 1\pmod p$

(    ) (d) $\forall p\in\mathbb{Z}.p>5\to\exists x\in\mathbb{N}.x^2\equiv 1\pmod p$

-------- Berkeley Fall 2003 Midterm

***

### 四、

(a) Consider the function $f(x)=20-4x^2$ from the set $\{-3,-2,-1,0,1,2,3\}$ to the set $\{-16,4,16,20,36\}$. Is it an injection? Is it a surjection? Explain your answer.

(b) Is the function $f(x)=2x-1$ a bijection from the set of positive integers to the set of positive integers? Explain your answer.

(c) What is the inverse of $f(x)=5-2x^{3/2}$?

(d) Let $f(x)=x^{2/3}+2x+7$ and $g(x)=3x+4$ be functions from the set of real numbers to the set of real numbers. What is $f\circ g$? And what is $g\circ f$?

-------- Queens Univ October 2006 Test1

***

### 五、

Give an example of a function $f:\mathbb{N}\to\mathbb{Z}$ that is:

(a) Neither injective nor surjective.

(b) Injective but not surjective.

(c) Surjective but not injective.

(d) Surjective and injective.

-------- Stanford February 2006

***

### 六、

Prove or give a counterexample for each of the following:

(a) If $A\subseteq B$ and $B\subseteq C$, then $A\subseteq C$.

(b) If $A\in B$ and $B\in C$, then $A\in C$.

-------- Stanford February 2007

***

### 七、

Let us add the following two operations to our dealings with sets:

- Pairwise addition: $A\oplus B:=\{a+b\mid a\in A,\ b\in B\}$ (This is also called the Minkowski addition of sets A and B.)
- Pairwise multiplication: $A\otimes B:=\{a\times b\mid a\in A,\ b\in B\}$

For example, if $A$ is $\{1,2\}$ and $B$ is $\{10,100\}$, then $A\oplus B=\{11,12,101,102\}$ and $A\otimes B=\{10,20,100,200\}$. Please describe the following sets:

i. $\mathbb{N}\oplus\varnothing$;

ii. $\mathbb{N}\oplus\mathbb{N}$

iii. $\mathbb{N}^{+}\oplus\mathbb{N}^{+}$

iv. $\mathbb{N}^{+}\otimes\mathbb{N}^{+}$

-------- Stanford Homework

***

### 八、

用一阶谓词公式描述下列命题的结构（使用全总个体域）

(a) 自然数不是奇数就是偶数

(b) 没有最大的自然数

***

### 九、

构造下面推理的证明

前提：

$$
\exists xF(x)\to\forall y(G(y)\to H(y)),
$$

$$
\exists xM(x)\to\exists y(G(y))
$$

结论：

$$
\exists x(F(x)\land M(x))\to\exists y(H(y))
$$

***

### 十、

设 $A$，$B$，$C$ 为任意的集合，证明：

(1) $(A-B)-C=(A-C)-B$

(2) $A\cap(B\oplus C)=(A\cap B)\oplus(A\cap C)$

说明：$B\oplus C$ 表示集合 $B$ 和集合 $C$ 的对称差，即 $(B\cup C)-(B\cap C)$，也即：$(B-C)\cup(C-B)$。

***

### 十一、

若 $A$ 是不可列的无限集，$B$ 为无限可列集，且 $A\cap B=\varnothing$，试建立 $A\cup B$ 到 $A$ 的一一对应。

***

### 十二、

若 $A_1,A_2,\ldots,A_m$ 都是无限集，且都是可列集，并且它们两两互不相交，证明：

$$
\bigcup_{i=1}^{m}A_i
$$

是可列集。

***

### 十三、

(ECNU 2024, midterm) Let $A$, $B$ and $C$ be sets. Prove that $B-C\subseteq\overline{A}$ if and only if $A\cap B\subseteq C$.
